Burtis Jackson Crone, Jr. (“Crone”) is currently serving a thirty-year sentence for a 1994 burglary conviction.   Crone was erroneously released from custody on June 22, 1997 and then rearrested on June 7, 1998.   This Court granted a Certificate of Appealability (“COA”) “on the issue of whether Crone's sentence should be credited for the out of custody period following his being notified of his erroneous release.”   For the following reasons, we VACATE the district court's judgment for lack of subject matter jurisdiction.
FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
Crone was serving three concurrent prison sentences when the Texas Court of Criminal Appeals reversed two of the sentences and remanded for resentencing.   On June 5, 1997, the Texas Department of Criminal Justice, Institutional Division (“TDCJ-ID”) sent Crone to Dallas County to await resentencing.   During Crone's stay in the Dallas County Jail, he was resentenced to time served on the two sentences that were reversed.   Crone was then sent to the Hutchins State Jail, but the jail refused to accept him because it is a short-term facility, and the record indicated that Crone had a thirty-year sentence remaining on the conviction that had not been reversed.
On June 22, 1997, the Dallas County Jail sent Crone to the book-out Sergeant for release.   Crone informed the Sergeant that two of his sentences had been reduced to time served, but that he still had a thirty-year sentence to serve on the remaining conviction.   The Sergeant told Crone, “[i]t looks like someone has lowered all three sentences to time served” and “[j]ust count yourself lucky and go home.”
The next day, Crone had his mother and step-sister make repeated phone calls to the Dallas County Jail to determine whether he had any outstanding warrants.   The person who answered at the jail told Crone's relatives that he had no warrants and that the computer showed that all three sentences were reduced to time served, thus he was free and clear.   The person at the jail also instructed them not to call back.   Crone next attempted to renew his driver's license because he knew that if a warrant existed, he would not be allowed to do so.   He received his driver's license, and obtained his social security card as well, confirming that no warrants existed for him.   Crone did not commit any new crimes while he was released.
On August 7, 1997, the TDCJ-ID notified the Dallas County Jail that it had erroneously released Crone.   TDCJ-ID informed the Dallas County Jail that Crone needed to be rearrested and took no further action.   Five months after his erroneous release, a representative of the Dallas County Jail called Crone and asked him to turn himself in.1  Crone did not do so.   On June 7, 1998, an agent with the Federal Bureau of Investigations (“FBI”) arrested Crone and returned him to the Dallas County Jail.   Crone was returned to TDCJ-ID four months later without a hearing, and he was not charged with evading arrest or any other new charges.   Crone was out of custody for eleven months and fourteen days.
On November 11, 1998, Crone filed his second state application for writ of habeas corpus with the state trial court.   Crone argued that he should receive credit for the entire time he spent out of custody.   The state trial court considered a letter and affidavit from S.O. Woods, Jr. (“Woods”), Chairman of the State Classification Committee at TDCJ-ID in Huntsville, Texas, which provided a summary of Crone's records.   The state trial court credited Woods's affidavit and letter which indicated that “for jail time credit purposes, [Crone] has been in continuous confinement relative to Cause No. F94-60739-WN since November 15, 1994 and that [Crone] has not been denied jail time credit for the period of time during which [he] was erroneously not in confinement.”   Accordingly, the state trial court denied Crone's application.   The Texas Court of Criminal Appeals subsequently denied Crone's application without written order, based on the findings of the trial court without a hearing.
On April 18, 1999, Crone filed his initial federal petition for writ of habeas corpus contending that:  (1) his sentence was improperly enhanced by two state jail felonies, and (2) he received ineffective assistance of counsel.   This petition was dismissed with prejudice as time-barred and this Court denied Crone's request for a COA.   On August 16, 1999, Crone, appearing pro se, filed his second federal petition for writ of habeas corpus pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2254.   In this subsequent petition, Crone argued that he was denied jail time credit for the time period he was out of custody due to his erroneous release.   The district court referred the matter to a magistrate judge.   The State filed a motion to dismiss for failure to request permission from the Fifth Circuit to file a successive petition.   On February 15, 2000, the magistrate judge found that Crone's petition was not “successive” within the meaning of 28 U.S.C. § 2244(b).  The district court adopted the magistrate judge's findings, conclusions, and recommendation, and denied the State's motion to dismiss.
The magistrate judge conducted an evidentiary hearing where Michael W. Countz, Assistant Director for Classification & Records for TDCJ-ID, testified that Woods's earlier calculation of Crone's credits submitted in the state proceeding was incorrect and that Crone had not been given credit for out of custody time.2  The magistrate judge recommended that Crone be granted good-time credit for the period from June 5, 1997 through November 22, 1997.   Crone filed objections, arguing that he should be entitled to credit for the full period of time he was out of custody.   The State also filed objections and a motion to dismiss as moot, arguing that TDCJ-ID had in fact awarded Crone credit for the period of time from June 5, 1997 to November 22, 1997, thus rendering Crone's petition moot.   After conducting a de novo review, the district court adopted the recommendation of the magistrate judge and subsequently denied Crone's request for a COA.3  On May 20, 2002, this Court granted Crone's application for a COA and this appeal follows.
DISCUSSION
Pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2244(b)(3)(A)-
Before a second or successive application permitted by this section is filed in the district court, the applicant shall move in the appropriate court of appeals for an order authorizing the district court to consider the application.
The State contends that Crone's petition should have been dismissed as successive because the factual predicate of his erroneous release was known to Crone no later than June 7, 1998, the date he was rearrested, well before Crone filed his first federal petition on April 18, 1999.
 As a preliminary matter, the State did not file a cross-appeal raising the successiveness issue.   Nevertheless, this Court must address whether Crone's petition is “successive” within the meaning of § 2244(b)(3)(A) because our appellate jurisdiction is implicated.   In United States v. Key, this Court held that “§ 2244(b)(3)(A) acts as a jurisdictional bar to the district court's asserting jurisdiction over any successive habeas petition until this [C]ourt has granted the petitioner permission to file one.”  205 F.3d 773, 774 (5th Cir.2000);  see also Spivey v. State Bd. of Pardons & Paroles, 279 F.3d 1301, 1303 (11th Cir.2002) (treating the prisoner's § 1983 claim as the functional equivalent of a second habeas petition and holding that because “he did not first apply with this Court for permission to file a second or successive petition as required by 28 U.S.C. § 2244(b)(3)(A), the district court lacked jurisdiction to entertain [the prisoner's] claim”);  United States v. Torres, 282 F.3d 1241, 1246 (10th Cir.2002) (“Because [the petitioner] did not obtain leave from this court pursuant to 28 U.S.C. § 2244(b)(3)(A) before filing his successive § 2255 petition, the district court ․ lacked subject matter jurisdiction․”); 