The petitioner, Edgar Romero Villafranca, is a Honduran national who seeks judicial review of a final order of the Board of Immigration Appeals (BIA) denying his application for asylum, withholding of removal, and protection under the United Nations Convention Against Torture (CAT). After careful consideration, we deny his petition.
The background is easily sketched. In November of 2010, the petitioner entered the United States illegally, was thereafter detained, and was then paroled. He told an asylum officer that he was seeking asylum due to what he described as his attempted kidnapping or murder a year earlier. He said that, while driving his car along a Honduran road, a vehicle containing several armed men cut him off. The men were dressed in regalia of a sort that the petitioner thought “customary” for the special police. Three of them approached the petitioner's vehicle and, as he sped away, they opened fire. The petitioner was able to evade his assailants, but he nevertheless thought that he remained at risk because of his family's wealth and political ties.
In due course, the petitioner was served with a notice to appear before an immigration judge (IJ) and (for reasons not relevant here) his case was subsequently transferred to Massachusetts. The petitioner conceded removability and cross-applied for asylum, withholding of removal, and CAT protection. During a hearing before the IJ in February of 2013, the petitioner recounted the narrative that he had related to the asylum officer. He added that he did not report the incident because he feared that the Honduran police were involved; that he drove to his family's farm in Juticalpa following the incident; and that he remained there for roughly six months before fleeing to the United States.
The petitioner pointed to his family's upper-class status and political ties as likely reasons why he was targeted by the marauders. He mentioned that his father was a long-time member of the ruling party in Honduras and a friend of the country's then-president. Furthermore, his aunt and uncle were both entrenched in Honduran politics. Although his family had continued to live safely in Honduras before and after the attack that he described, he said that his father had received several threatening telephone calls. He went on to note that his godfather had been assassinated in 2007, albeit for unspecified reasons.
The IJ found the petitioner's testimony to be credible. She nonetheless concluded that he had not established either past persecution or a well-founded fear of future persecution. Moreover, he had failed to tie his attack to his membership in a particular social group. Based on these and other findings, the IJ denied all of the petitioner's claims for relief and ordered him removed to Honduras.
The petitioner appealed to the BIA, which affirmed the IJ's decision. The BIA concluded that even if the petitioner had successfully demonstrated the requisite connection between the attack and his membership in a particular social group, he had failed to establish either past persecution or a well-founded fear of future persecution. This timely petition for judicial review followed. See 8 U.S.C. § 1252(b)(1).
Where, as here, the BIA adopts and affirms an IJ's decision “while adding its own gloss, we review both the IJ's and the BIA's decisions as a unit.” Jianli Chen v. Holder, 703 F.3d 17, 21 (1st Cir.2012). Our review proceeds under the deferential substantial evidence rubric, which “requires us to accept the agency's findings of fact, including credibility findings, as long as they are supported by reasonable, substantial, and probative evidence on the record considered as a whole.” Segran v. Mukasey, 511 F.3d 1, 5 (1st Cir.2007) (internal quotation marks omitted). “Absent an error of law, we will reverse only if the record compels a conclusion contrary to that reached by the agency.” Mariko v. Holder, 632 F.3d 1, 5 (1st Cir.2011). Questions of law “engender de novo review, but with some deference to the agency's reasonable interpretation of statutes and regulations that fall within its sphere of authority.” Jianli Chen, 703 F.3d at 21.
Before assessing the decision below, it is helpful to lay a foundation. To be eligible for asylum, an alien must establish that he is a refugee within the meaning of 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(42). In pertinent part, that statute demands a showing of “persecution or a well-founded fear of persecution” on account of one of five enumerated grounds: “race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion [.]” We have made pellucid that “persecution requires more than a showing of either episodic violence or sporadic abuse.” Palma–Mazariegos v. Gonzales, 428 F.3d 30, 37 (1st Cir.2005). Put another way, “[t]o qualify as persecution, a person's experience must rise above unpleasantness, harassment, and even basic suffering.” Jorgji v. Mukasey, 514 F.3d 53, 57 (1st Cir.2008) (internal quotation marks omitted). In addition, “the term ‘persecution’ implies some link to governmental action or inaction; that is, the government must practice, encourage, or countenance it, or at least prove itself unable or unwilling to combat it.” Lopez Perez v. Holder, 587 F.3d 456, 462 (1st Cir.2009).
A successful showing of past persecution creates a rebuttable presumption that an alien's fear of future persecution is well-founded. See Orelien v. Gonzales, 467 F.3d 67, 71 (1st Cir.2006). An inability to establish past persecution, however, is not necessarily fatal to the asylum seeker's quest: he still “may prevail on an asylum claim by proving, simpliciter, a well-founded fear of future persecution independent of any presumption.” Id.
With this foundation in place, we turn to the petitioner's claims of error. To begin, the petitioner asserts that neither the IJ nor the BIA appropriately analyzed whether he had experienced past persecution. This assertion is belied by the record.
For her part, the IJ conducted a thorough analysis regarding the existence vel non of past persecution. After a detailed discussion, the IJ found that the petitioner had fallen victim to a single, isolated criminal attack which failed to come close to the level of persecution. The BIA was equally thorough; it affirmed the IJ's determination that no persecution had been established, citing a trio of cases in which this court upheld decisions of the BIA concluding that isolated incidents did not equate to persecution.1 The BIA then concluded that the solitary attack on the petitioner did not sink to the level of persecution.
The petitioner next complains about the agency's finding that he failed to demonstrate a well-founded fear of future persecution. This plaint fares no better.
A well-founded fear of future persecution must be both subjectively authentic and objectively reasonable. See Orelien, 467 F.3d at 71. To achieve this benchmark, an alien must show that he genuinely fears persecution were he to be repatriated and that his fear has an objectively reasonable basis. See Lopez Perez, 587 F.3d at 461–62. A petitioner's credible testimony may alone satisfy the subjective component of the test. See Makhoul v. Ashcroft, 387 F.3d 75, 80–81 (1st Cir.2004). Here, the IJ credited the petitioner's testimony about his subjective fear of returning to Honduras, so we turn to the objective component.
The objective component of the test is satisfied only if “a reasonable person in the asylum applicant's circumstances would fear persecution on account of a statutorily protected ground.” Id. at 81. Both the IJ and the BIA found that the petitioner had not made this showing. The question, then, reduces to whether the record compels a contrary conclusion. See INS v. Elias–Zacarias, 502 U.S. 478, 483–84, 112 S.Ct. 812, 117 L.Ed.2d 38 (1992).
We need not tarry. Simply put, the record does not compel a contrary conclusion but, rather, is fully consistent with the agency's determination that the petitioner's professed fear of future persecution was not objectively reasonable.
At the center of the petitioner's claimed fear of future pe