Appellant Lawrence S. Maxwell and approximately 562 other individuals and entities filed this action in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia seeking, inter alia, tax return information and declaratory and injunctive relief.   The District Court granted the government's motion to dismiss most of the claims, ruling that Appellants' requests had not complied with Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) requirements and that the declaratory and injunctive relief prayed was frivolous.   Appellants contended that 26 U.S.C. § 6103 provides a basis to request “return information” not subject to FOIA;  that their claims for injunctive and declaratory relief were improperly dismissed because there remained unresolved issues of fact;  and furthermore, that their claims were not frivolous.   For the reasons more fully set forth below, we conclude that the District Court was correct and affirm its dismissal of Appellants' claims.
I. Background
In June of 2000, Appellant Lawrence S. Maxwell sent a ten-page letter to the National Office of the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) Disclosure Unit seeking tax-related information for the tax years 1987-2000.   He sought disclosure of at least nineteen types of information pertaining to himself including (1) “return information” as described in the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 6103(b)(2), (2) records showing how his “taxable income” was determined, (3) records showing that he was given notice of a duty to file a tax, (4) records identifying him as an individual subject to taxation, (5) records indicating his citizenship and residency, purportedly because as a citizen and resident of the U.S. he would not be liable for income tax, (6) records showing that he “resided or worked within one of the specified areas of federal jurisdiction of the United States government,” purportedly because only such records would establish federal jurisdiction to tax him, and (7) records indicating the specific code sections showing him liable for a particular tax or requiring him to fill out certain forms.   Maxwell cited the provisions of § 6103, relying on this Court's decision in Lake v. Rubin, 162 F.3d 113 (D.C.Cir.1998), a case in which he was a party, for the proposition that “individuals seeking ‘return information’ ․ must do so pursuant to § 6103 ․ rather than the Privacy Act.” Id. at 116.   The other Appellants sent letters to the IRS that were identical to Maxwell's in all relevant respects.   The IRS did not grant or deny the requests, but informed Appellants by letters that their “Freedom of Information/Privacy Act” requests did not comply with the “published procedures for making a request under the Privacy Act,” advising them how to cure the error.
FOIA outlines procedures for agencies to make information available to the public under certain conditions.  5 U.S.C. § 552.   Subsection (b)(3) provides that information need not be given out when it is specifically exempted from disclosure by another statute (“Exemption 3”).  Id. § 552(b)(3).  Section 6103 of the Internal Revenue Code specifically exempts tax returns from disclosure except in specified circumstances.   For example, an individual may request inspection of his tax return or “return information,” 26 U.S.C. § 6103(e)(1), (7), including
a taxpayer's identity, the nature, source, or amount of his income, payments, receipts, deductions, exemptions, credits, assets, liabilities, net worth, tax liability, tax withheld, deficiencies, overassessments, or tax payments, whether the taxpayer's return was, is being, or will be examined or subject to other investigation or processing, or any other data, received by, recorded by, prepared by, furnished to, or collected by the Secretary with respect to a return or with respect to the determination of the existence, or possible existence, of liability (or the amount thereof) of any person under this title for any tax, penalty, interest, fine, forfeiture, or other imposition, or offense․
26 U.S.C. § 6103(b)(2)(A).  Section 6103 thus “does not supersede FOIA but rather gives rise to an exemption under Exemption 3” and FOIA procedures must still be followed in applying § 6103.  Church of Scientology of California v. IRS, 792 F.2d 146, 149-50 (D.C.Cir.1986).
Appellants disputed the IRS requirement that they must follow FOIA or Privacy Act procedures, and filed suit against the Secretary of the Treasury, seeking access to the requested information under § 6103, as well as fees, costs, and money damages.   Appellants also requested declarations by the court that, among other things, Appellants are not citizens, that Texas is not a part of the United States, and that the United States itself is unconstitutional because it is not a republican form of government.   The United States moved to dismiss the cases, arguing lack of subject matter jurisdiction under § 6103 and that Appellants had failed to make a proper FOIA request to exhaust their administrative remedies.   Appellants responded that, under Lake, § 6103 provides jurisdiction independent of FOIA.
The District Court, reading Lake in the context of Church of Scientology, found that while § 6103 may supercede the Privacy Act, it does not supercede the procedural provisions in FOIA. It ruled that, while Appellants had failed to send their requests to the proper local bureau under FOIA, 31 C.F.R. § 1.5(b)(3), that error only tolled the Government's time to respond while the request was transferred to the correct bureau.   It also found that the Appellants may have failed to “reasonably describe the records” sought, 31 C.F.R. § 1.5(b)(4), but that the IRS could not simply dismiss the entire request because some of the nineteen requests were incomplete or consisted of “pseudo-requests” attempting to challenge tax laws rather than seek information.   It then reviewed the requests and found all to be overly broad or burdensome with the exception of the portion seeking “return information” as described in 26 U.S.C. § 6103.   The District Court thus directed the IRS to process the portion of Appellants' requests for “return information” according to FOIA, granting the motion to dismiss as to the other requests.   The other claims for declaratory and injunctive relief were dismissed as frivolous.   Appellants filed this present appeal.
II. Analysis
Where, as here, we are reviewing a ruling on a motion to dismiss, we will “accept as true all facts alleged by the nonmoving party and ․ draw all inferences in favor of the nonmoving party.”  Center for Law & Educ. v. Dep't of Educ., 396 F.3d 1152, 1157 (D.C.Cir.2005).   Because the District Court did not make any evidentiary findings of its own, we apply this standard de novo.  Helmer v. Doletskaya, 393 F.3d 201, 204-05 (D.C.Cir.2004).
A. Standing of Challenged Appellants
 Before addressing the substantive merits of Appellants' claims, we must determine the proper parties to this case.   The IRS has moved to dismiss two groups of individuals as Appellants.   The first group consists of nineteen Appellants 1 who allegedly were not parties to the District Court case because they did not sign the original complaint or either amended complaint.   Under Fed.R.Civ.P. 11(a), all pleadings by a pro se plaintiff must be signed by the party and, if not, must be stricken unless corrected promptly after being notified of the omission.   The IRS moved to dismiss claiming that in this case notification at an earlier time was essentially impossible because of the large number of plaintiffs and the disorganized presentation of names and signatures in the complaint.   Appellants did not make a timely response and failed to address the issue in their merits brief although instructed to do so.   We therefore will consider this issue conceded for lack of response by Appellants, and dismiss the nineteen challenged Appellants for lack of standing because they were not parties to the appealed proceeding.
 The second set of Appella