How does one enforce a civil judgment against a person protected by the Witness Security Program? Congress, it turns out, answered this question in 18 U.S.C. § 3523. That provision requires the Attorney General to determine whether the protected person is making “reasonable efforts” to satisfy the judgment and establishes procedures for collecting the judgment if the person is failing to do so. In this case, the Attorney General found that a protected person would make reasonable efforts to pay a judgment owed to appellant. Dissatisfied, appellant sought to invoke one of section 3523's enforcement procedures-appointment of a guardian to help collect the judgment. Under these circumstances, the district court held, section 3523 does not authorize appointment of a guardian. For the reasons set forth in this opinion, we agree.
I.
On September 21, 1976, former Chilean ambassador and foreign minister Orlando Letelier and his assistant Ronni Moffitt were assassinated as they drove to their office in Washington, D.C. Michael Vernon Townley, an American citizen and agent of Chilean President Augusto Pinochet's intelligence service, Dirección de Intelligencia Nacional, admitted his complicity in the killings, testified in the criminal proceedings, and pleaded guilty to one count of conspiracy to murder a foreign official. United States v.. Sampol, 636 F.2d 621, 629 & n. 3 (D.C.Cir.1980). After serving five years in prison, Townley entered the Witness Security Program (WSP), commonly known as the Witness Protection Program. Through the WSP, the Attorney General may relocate and protect witnesses whose safety is at risk. 18 U.S.C. § 3521(a)(1). Such protection may include the creation of a new identity. Id. § 3521(b)(1)(A).
In the years following the two assassinations, Townley's involvement in various other crimes came to light. In particular, he was linked to the July 1976 torture and murder of Carmelo Soria Espinoza (“Soria”), a United Nations diplomat then living and working in Chile. In November 2002, Soria's widow, Laura Gonzalez-Vera, along with the personal representative of Soria's estate, sued Townley seeking damages for Soria's torture and killing. When Townley defaulted, the district court entered a $7 million judgment against him. Gonzalez-Vera v. Kissinger, No. 02-02240, Order for Default Judgment (D.D.C. Nov. 23, 2005).
Gonzalez-Vera then asked the Attorney General to help collect the judgment pursuant to 18 U.S.C. § 3523. Subsection (a) of that provision states that if a civil judgment is entered against a person enrolled in the WSP, “the Attorney General shall determine whether the [protected] person has made reasonable efforts to comply with the judgment” and “shall ․ urge the person to comply with the judgment.” In language central to this case, subsection (a) states:
If the Attorney General determines that the person has not made reasonable efforts to comply with the judgment, the Attorney General may, after considering the danger to the person and upon the request of the person holding the judgment disclose the identity and location of the person to the plaintiff entitled to recovery pursuant to the judgment.
In response to Gonzalez-Vera's request, the United States Marshals Service informed Townley that unless he took satisfactory steps to comply with the judgment, his identity and location could be disclosed pursuant to subsection (a). Townley responded with an affidavit describing his present assets, debts, income, and financial history. Based on that affidavit, the WSP Director, to whom the Attorney General has delegated his authority on such issues, determined that “it is not unreasonable for [Townley] to pay $75 per week” toward the judgment. Letter from Stephen J. T'Kach, Director, U.S. Department of Justice Witness Security Program, to Jeffery M. Johnson, Dickstein Shapiro LLP (June 1, 2007). Townley agreed, but according to the Director, Gonzalez-Vera rejected the arrangement and so has received no payments. Although Gonzalez-Vera has a different view of what transpired, this disagreement is irrelevant to the statutory question we face here.
Gonzalez-Vera then sued Townley and the Attorney General in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia pursuant to section 3523(b)(1), which provides that any person who holds a judgment against a WSP participant “may, upon a decision by the Attorney General to deny disclosure of the current identity and location of such protected person, bring an action against the protected person in the United States district court.” If the petitioner in fact holds a judgment and if the court finds “that the Attorney General has declined to disclose to the petitioner the current identity and location of the protected person,” then subsection (b)(3) requires the court to “appoint a guardian to act on behalf of the petitioner.” § 3523(b)(3). The Attorney General must then disclose to the guardian the protected person's identity and location. Id.
The Attorney General moved to dismiss, arguing that subsection (b)(1) makes a guardianship proceeding available only where the Attorney General determines that the protected person is failing to make reasonable efforts to comply but, “after considering the danger to the [protected] person,” § 3523(a), nonetheless declines to disclose the person's identity and location. Subsection (b)(1) does not, the Attorney General insisted, allow the judgment-holder to sue for the appointment of a guardian, where, as here, the Attorney General finds that the protected person will make reasonable efforts to pay.
Agreeing with the Attorney General, the district court emphasized that “the statute authorizes plaintiffs to bring this action only ‘upon a decision by the Attorney General to deny disclosure’ “-a decision, the district court held, the Attorney General had no authority to make “because § 3523(a) does not authorize ․ disclosure unless the [Attorney General] determines that Townley has not made reasonable efforts to comply with the judgment.” Gonzalez-Vera v. Townley, 597 F.Supp.2d 98, 102, 101 (D.D.C.2009) (quoting § 3523(b)(1)). Having found that Townley would make reasonable efforts, the Attorney General “had no choice, no discretion, no decision.” Id. at 102. Because Gonzalez-Vera “lack[ed] statutory authorization to bring this suit,” the district court dismissed the case. Id.
Gonzalez-Vera appeals, arguing that the district court misinterpreted the statute. We review de novo the district court's grant of a motion to dismiss, see, e.g., Piersall v. Winter, 435 F.3d 319, 321 (D.C.Cir.2006), as well as its resolution of this “pure question of statutory interpretation,” United States v. Villanueva-Sotelo, 515 F.3d 1234, 1237 (D.C.Cir.2008); see also Murphy Exploration and Prod. Co. v. Dep't of Interior, 252 F.3d 473, 478-79 (D.C.Cir.2001) (agency's construction of a statute receives no deference where statute grants judicial power to the courts rather than administrative power to the agency).
II.
As noted above, section 3523(b)(1) permits a judgment-holder to sue for the appointment of a guardian “upon a decision by the Attorney General to deny disclosure.” Because this case turns on the meaning of that phrase and its relationship to the process described in subsection (a), we think it helpful to begin by quoting the relevant provisions of the statute in full:
(a) If a judgment ․ is entered against [a protected] person the Attorney General shall determine whether the person has made reasonable efforts to comply with the judgment․ If the Attorney General determines that the person has not made reasonable efforts to comply with the judgment, the Attorney General may, after considering the danger to the person and upon the request of the person holding the judgment disclose the identity and location of the person to the plaintiff entitled to recovery pursuant to the judgment․
(b) (1) Any person who holds a judgment entered by a Federal or State court in his or her favor against a person provided protection under this chapter may, upon a decision by the Attorney Gene