Apotex Corp. appeals the decision of the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois 1 granting summary judgment in favor of Merck & Co. in an action by Apotex to set aside a judgment on charges of fraud, pursuant to Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b)(3).   Apotex also asserted state law claims against Merck for common law fraud and tortious interference with prospective economic advantage, and sought to compel discovery pursuant to the crime fraud exception to the attorney-client privilege.   The judgment of the district court is affirmed.
BACKGROUND
In 1996 Apotex filed suit against Merck in the Northern District of Illinois, charging that Merck's process for formulating and producing tablets of the pharmaceutical compound enalapril (brand name VASOTEC®, used to treat high blood pressure) infringed Apotex's United States patents No. 5,573,780 and No. 5,690,962.   The Apotex process involves the following steps, as set forth in claim 1 of the ′780 patent:
1.  A process of manufacture of a pharmaceutical solid composition comprising enalapril sodium, which process comprises the steps of:
(i)(a) mixing enalapril maleate with an alkaline sodium compound and at least one other excipient, adding water sufficient to moisten, and mixing to achieve a wet mass, or
(b) mixing enalapril maleate with at least one excipient other than an alkaline sodium compound, adding a solution of alkaline sodium compound in water, sufficient to moisten and mixing to achieve a wet mass;
thereby to achieve a reaction without converting the enalapril maleate to a clear solution of enalapril sodium and maleic acid sodium salt in water;
(ii) drying the wet mass, and;
(iii) further processing the dried material into tablets.
The district court ruled in January 2000 that the Apotex patents were invalid under 35 U.S.C. § 102(g), on the ground that the process had been invented and used by Merck before Apotex made the invention set forth in the Apotex patents.  Apotex Corp. v. Merck & Co., No. 96 C 7375, 2000 WL 97582 (N.D.Ill. Jan.25, 2000) (Apotex I ).  35 U.S.C. § 102(g) provides that an applicant is not entitled to a patent if “before such person's invention thereof, the invention was made in this country by another, who had not abandoned, suppressed, or concealed it.”   The Federal Circuit affirmed.   Apotex USA, Inc. v. Merck & Co., 254 F.3d 1031 (Fed.Cir.2001) (Apotex II ).
In Apotex I and Apotex II it was generally undisputed that Merck had invented and practiced the accused process well before Apotex had done so, but Apotex argued that it was entitled to a patent because Merck had suppressed or concealed the invention and practiced it in secret, and therefore that Merck infringed the Apotex patents.   The district court rejected the Apotex argument, finding that the process as practiced by Merck was not suppressed, concealed, or secret.   The court found that well before the date that Apotex stated was its invention date, Merck had widely distributed a list of the ingredients in its tableted product.   The district court referred to admissions from Apotex witnesses that “any chemist who knew the ingredients and knew that the process involved adding water to the mix would automatically know that a reaction of the enalapril malete occurred.”  Apotex I, 2000 WL 97582 at *8. In addition, in 1991 Merck's vice president of marketing, Brian McLeod, narrated a videotape describing the Merck process, presented during the trial of a lawsuit in Canada in which Merck and its Canadian subsidiary had sued Apotex's Canadian affiliate for infringing Merck's Canadian patent on enalapril.   The Federal Circuit affirmed the district court's ruling that the Apotex patents were invalid based on prior invention by another, deeming the narration at the Canadian trial to be a public disclosure of Merck's process.  Apotex II, 254 F.3d at 1040.   This court held that the various disclosures by Merck “made the knowledge of [Merck's] invention available to the public, thereby satisfying its burden of rebutting Apotex's evidence of suppression or concealment.”   Id.
More than one year later Apotex returned to the district court, charging that the district court's ruling in Apotex I, and our affirmance thereof in Apotex II, were obtained by fraud.   Apotex charged that Merck had falsely stated, in its response to a discovery request, that “the entire process was publicly discussed in open court by Brian McLeod during the Canadian Litigation” and falsely stated that “[t]his process has not been abandoned, suppressed, or concealed.”   Apotex also charged that Merck misrepresented facts in its summary judgment brief submitted to the district court and in its appellate brief submitted to the Federal Circuit, and made false statements, viz., the statements:  “[t]he details of the process were the subject of public testimony in a court action in Canada”;  Brian McLeod provided a “step by step explanation of Merck's process”;  “one could reverse-engineer Merck's process by examining Merck's tablets and by reviewing the ingredient list”;  “Merck disagrees that it ever suppressed or concealed the invention”;  and Merck's “conduct in the late 1980s and early 1990s belies any intention to keep its process secret.”
Apotex argued that Merck admitted in 2004 that these statements were false, after Apotex I had been decided and affirmed, because Merck's key witness in Apotex I, Dr. Brenner, testified to the contrary in a different case in which he was an expert witness.   That case was between Warner-Lambert Co. and Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, and involved quinapril, a related but different compound from enalapril.   The district court did not agree with the Apotex position, finding that the aspects that Apotex stated established Merck's fraud concerned details of Merck's process for manufacturing enalapril, and not information claimed in or disclosed by the Apotex patent.   The court explained that whether Merck had fully disclosed all of its own manufacturing details was irrelevant to the validity of the Apotex patents covering the process broadly.  Apotex III, 2006 WL 1155954 at *7.
The district court also observed that various allegedly fraudulent statements were not testimony or evidence, but attorney argument, and concluded:  “These statements, however, like those discussed previously, were statements made by Merck's attorneys concerning the reasonable inferences that could be drawn from the evidence uncovered during discovery.   As such, they were not fraudulent and cannot form the basis of relief under Rule 60(b).”  Id. As to the Apotex request to compel discovery of privileged communications between Merck and its attorneys, the court ruled that Apotex had made no showing sufficient to invoke the crime fraud exception to the attorney-client privilege.   The district court also rejected the argument that it constituted fraud for Merck to have refrained from seeking patent protection for its process.
Apotex appeals the ruling that fraud had not been established.   The state law claims were dismissed by the district court and are not appealed.
DISCUSSION
I
 Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 60(b) states the conditions on which a court can set aside a judgment based on assertion of fraud:
Rule 60(b) Mistakes;  Inadvertence;  Excusable Neglect;  Newly Discovered Evidence;  Fraud, Etc.
On motion and upon such terms as are just, the court may relieve a party or a party's legal representative from a final judgment, order, or proceeding for the following reasons:  (1) mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect;  (2) newly discovered evidence which by due diligence could not have been discovered in time to move for a new trial under Rule 59(b);  (3) fraud (whether heretofore denominated intrinsic or extrinsic), misrepresentation, or other misconduct of an adverse party;  ․ or (6) any other reason justifying relief from the operation of judgment.
The motion shall be made within a reasonable time, and for reasons (1), (2), and