Champagne Louis Roederer (“Roederer”) appeals the district court's dismissal on summary judgment of its trademark infringement suit against J. Garcia Carrion, S.A. (“Carrion”) and Friend Wine Marketing, Inc., d/b/a CIV USA (“CIV USA”) on the ground that Roederer's suit was barred by the equitable doctrine of laches.   We reverse and remand.
I.
Roederer is a wine producer incorporated under the laws of France. Roederer produces, among other things, an expensive champagne that is sold under the name “Cristal.”   Created in 1876 as the official wine of the Imperial Court of Russia for Tsar Alexander II, Cristal has achieved significant notoriety, as the appellees put it, as the champagne of the “tsars and the stars.”   Roederer has registered the trademark “CRISTAL CHAMPAGNE” and the trademark and design “CRISTAL CHAMPAGNE LR” in the United States.
Carrion is a Spanish corporation owned by Priesca, another Spanish corporation.   Jaume Serra is a Spanish winery also owned by Priesca.   In August 1998, Jaume Serra and Carrion merged into a single entity operating under the Carrion name.
Jaume Serra began making cava, a type of sparkling wine distinct from champagne, in 1984.   By 1987, Jaume Serra was selling cava under the names “Cristalino Jaume Serra” or “Cristalino.”   By 1989, Jaume Serra was selling Cristalino cava in the United States.   Early sales were small, but by 1997 Cristalino sales had grown to nearly 400,000 bottles in the United States.
CIV USA is an importer.   CIV USA began importing Jaume Serra wine into the United States in either 1991 or 1992.   CIV USA currently imports, distributes, and markets Carrion products in the United States.
Roederer successfully objected to Jaume Serra's attempt to register the “CRISTALINO” mark in Spain in 1989.   Roederer filed a similar objection to the registration of the “CRISTALINO JAUME SERRA” mark in Colombia in 1991, but abandoned the proceedings in 2000 for unexplained reasons.   Similarly, Roederer at first opposed Jaume Serra's application to register “CRISTALINO JAUME SERRA” in the United States, but abandoned that opposition in 1997.
Agents of Roederer first learned that Cristalino was being sold in the United States in 1995.   During proceedings unrelated to the appellees before the United States Patent and Trademark Office (“PTO”), Roederer's attorneys came across an affidavit indicating that “a sparkling wine from Spain called Cristalino” had been found on sale at a Cost Plus store in California on June 8, 1995.
After the merger of Carrion and Jaume Serra, Carrion began modernizing and expanding its winery facilities because, as it acknowledges, Jaume Serra's facilities were antiquated at the time of the merger.   Carrion spent 14 million euros from 1997 to 2002 improving Jaume Serra's cava production.   These improvements were not directed solely at Cristalino cava, as Carrion produces three different brands of cava, plus several “private label” cavas for retailers.   The renovations increased the total output of the Jaume Serra plant from 4 million bottles in 1997 to 15 million in 2003.   Of the 15 million bottles produced in 2003 at the Jaume Serra plant, approximately 1.3 million of the bottles were Cristalino, or about 9%.
In February 2002, Carrion's United States intent-to-use trademark application to register the “CRISTALINO” mark was published for opposition.   In June and July 2002, Roederer responded with cease-and-desist letters requesting that Carrion withdraw its application for the “CRISTALINO” mark.   Carrion refused.   After settlement talks failed, Roederer filed its notice of opposition with the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board (“Trademark Board”).   Roederer filed the present lawsuit in January 2006, and Roederer's opposition before the Trademark Board was stayed pending this suit.
The district court dismissed on summary judgment Roederer's suit for trademark infringement on the ground that its claims were barred by the equitable doctrine of laches.   First, the court determined that both CIV USA and Carrion had standing to assert Jaume Serra's defenses.   Second, it determined that Roederer was put on constructive notice that Cristalino was being sold in the United States in 1995 when its attorneys read in the affidavit that Cristalino was being sold at a chain of convenience stores in California.   The court ruled that it would be inequitable to permit Roederer's request for injunctive relief to proceed because Carrion made substantial investments in the Jaume Serra facilities during the seven-year period between 1995 and 2002, when Roederer first objected to Carrion's use of the “CRISTALINO” mark in the United States.1
II.
 Typically, “[w]e review de novo the district court's grant of summary judgment, applying the same standards as the district court.”   Schwan's IP, LLC v. Kraft Pizza Co., 460 F.3d 971, 973 (8th Cir.2006).   However, “[t]he determination of whether laches applies in the present case was a matter within the sound discretion of the district court, and we, accordingly, review the district court's application of laches for an abuse of discretion.”  Brown-Mitchell v. Kansas City Power & Light Co., 267 F.3d 825, 827 (8th Cir.2001) (citation omitted).  “Whether laches should be applied depends upon the facts of the particular case․” Garrett v. Gen. Motors Corp., 844 F.2d 559, 562 (8th Cir.1988).
 Laches is an equitable defense to an action to enforce a trademark.  Hubbard Feeds, Inc. v. Animal Feed Supplement, Inc., 182 F.3d 598, 601 (8th Cir.1999).  “Laches applies when a claimant inexcusably delays in asserting its claim and thereby unduly prejudices the party against whom the claim ultimately is asserted.”  Id. at 602.  “[A] defendant must demonstrate the presence of three elements in order to successfully assert laches as a defense:  (1) a delay in asserting a right or a claim;  (2) that the delay was not excusable;  and (3) that there was undue prejudice to the party against whom the claim is asserted.”  Kason Indus., Inc. v. Component Hardware Group, Inc., 120 F.3d 1199, 1203 (11th Cir.1997).
 In addition, in trademark suits, courts consider two additional factors when evaluating the merits of a laches defense:  (1) the doctrine of progressive encroachment, and (2) notice to the defendant of the plaintiff's objections to the potentially infringing mark.   First, under the doctrine of progressive encroachment, the time of delay is to be measured not from when the plaintiff first learned of the potentially infringing mark, but from when such infringement became actionable and provable.   See Angel Flight of Ga., Inc. v. Angel Flight Am., Inc., 522 F.3d 1200, 1207 (11th Cir.2008) (“Under the doctrine of progressive encroachment, delay is to be measured from the time at which the plaintiff knows or should know she has a provable claim for infringement.” (quotation omitted));  Kason Indus., 120 F.3d at 1206 (“[A] court should consider, in its assessment of laches, progressive encroachment, damage the plaintiff was suffering, and the likelihood of confusion at the time the plaintiff sued.”);  Sara Lee Corp. v. Kayser-Roth Corp., 81 F.3d 455, 462 (4th Cir.1996) (laches defense is inapplicable where plaintiff chose to delay suit “until its right to protection had clearly ripened”);  6 J. Thomas McCarthy, McCarthy on Trademarks and Unfair Competition § 31.19 (4th ed.2009) (owner of a mark “has no obligation to sue until the likelihood of confusion looms large” and “cannot be guilty of laches until his right ripens into one entitled to protection” (quotation omitted)).   The doctrine of progressive encroachment makes sense.   Otherwise, trademark holders would be hoisted upon the horns of an inequitable dilemma-sue immediately and lose because the alleged infringer is insufficiently competitive to create a likelihood of confusion, or wait and be dismissed for unreasonable delay.   See Sara Lee Corp., 81 F.3d at 462.
 Second, courts