OPINION
Plaintiffs Frank P. Fogerty and Nathan Crow appeal the district court's order granting summary judgment and awarding attorneys' fees to defendants (collectively, “MGM”) in this copyright infringement case.   As we agree with the district court that plaintiffs have not presented a sustainable theory of relief, we affirm that ruling.   As we disagree with the district court's award of attorneys' fees, we reverse that ruling.
I.
Michael Wilson and Barbara Broccoli, the current producers of the James Bond films and principals of Eon Productions, Ltd., sought a composer to write the musical score for the nineteenth Bond film-“The World Is Not Enough.”   In September 1998, Wilson and Broccoli selected David Arnold, a London-based composer, a Grammy award winner for the musical score for “Independence Day,” and the author of the end theme song for the Bond film “Tomorrow Never Dies.”   Arnold maintains a private recording studio in London, where he composed the theme song and gave it the same name as the film.   In writing the song, Arnold collaborated with lyricist Don Black, who also lives in London and who has written the lyrics to the theme songs for four previous Bond films.   Arnold and Black met several times in November and December of 1998 to discuss the lyrics for “The World Is Not Enough,” and they exchanged phone calls, faxes and e-mails during that time in collaborating on the song.
Arnold also contacted Shirley Manson, the Scottish-born lead singer for the rock-group “Garbage,” and asked her to record the song.   She agreed.
Between late October and November of 1998, Arnold played the melody of “The World Is Not Enough” over the phone to his personal assistant Trish Hillis, before whom he often informally auditioned his songs.   According to Arnold, he “strung some la-la's together, and all of a sudden the [song] came to life, and [he] thought [that was] probably it.”   JA 229.   On December 26, 1998, Arnold again played “The World Is Not Enough” for Hillis, this time on a piano at his London home.   When Arnold played the music for Hillis, he had completed the song and lyrics, save for the bridge-a brief transition of approximately eight bars in the middle of the song.   In December 1998, Arnold also played the melody for Geoff Foster and Isabel Griffiths, employees of Air Studios, on a grand piano in the studio's main hall.
In early January 1999, Arnold completed the song and created a “demo” recording of it on his computer at his private recording studio.   Arnold's computer shows January 6, 1999 as the last day he modified the demo recording.
At roughly this time, Arnold played “The World Is Not Enough” for Michael Wilson and Barbara Broccoli, the producers of the upcoming film.   They liked the song.   On January 8, 1999, Arnold traveled to Pinewood Studios in England and played the song for Michael Apted, the director of “The World Is Not Enough,” who “was extremely pleased with [the song].”   JA 233.
Arnold next asked Trish Hillis to deliver a copy of the demo to Shirley Manson, who (as noted) had agreed to record the song.   On January 19, Hillis's phone log shows that she contacted Ian Wesley, the general manager of Mushroom Records, Garbage's record label.   Wesley told Hillis that Manson was staying at the Royal Garden Hotel in London and to deliver the recording to the hotel at 10 a.m. the next day.   On January 20, after Hillis arrived at the Royal Garden Hotel, she called Harold Kohl, Garbage's tour manager, who told her to leave the recording at the front desk.   A bill from the Royal Garden Hotel indicates that Shirley Manson stayed there on January 20, 1999, and Manson later recalled receiving the song from Kohl in January 1999 while staying at the hotel.
Arnold next sent a recording of the song to his American agent, Vas Vangelos, who lives in Los Angeles.   An invoice shows that Air Studios billed Eon Productions for a shipment to Vangelos on February 2, 1999.   Michael Sandoval, then an executive vice president at MGM, requested a copy of “The World Is Not Enough” from Vangelos.   Sandoval received “The World Is Not Enough” on February 4, 1999, and he played the song for other MGM executives.   No one apparently liked the song initially because it was a ballad and because they had hoped for a theme song with a different tempo.
On the same day (February 4, 1999), Nathan Crow visited Michael Sandoval at MGM and delivered a recording of his song “This Game We Play,” which he had co-written with Frank P. Fogerty.   According to Crow, Sandoval liked the song, suggested that he might consider it for the 1999 film “The Thomas Crown Affair” and kept a copy of the recording.   Arnold's “The World Is Not Enough,” it turns out, shares an identical four-note sequence with Crow's “This Game We Play.”
Before Manson recorded the commercial version of “The World Is Not Enough,” MGM contacted Arnold in March of 1999 and suggested that a “three-note motif” in “The World Is Not Enough” was too similar to a motif in earlier Bond theme songs.   Arnold agreed to remove the three-note sequence, which all agree is unrelated to the four-note sequence that “This Game We Play” and “The World Is Not Enough” have in common.
In June and August of 1999, Shirley Manson and her band recorded “The World Is Not Enough.”   Manson requested one lyrical change in the song because the line-“I know when to kiss and I know when to kill”-did not meet her tastes.   JA 228.   Arnold and Black changed the lyrics, and she completed the recording.
II.
Convinced that Arnold and MGM had copied the four-note sequence from “This Game We Play” in composing “The World Is Not Enough,” Fogerty and Crow filed a copyright infringement action in the United States District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee.   The parties conducted discovery, and MGM moved for summary judgment, claiming that the undisputed facts showed that Arnold independently created “The World Is Not Enough.”
The district court granted MGM's motion, concluding that Arnold had independently written the tune to the song:
Defendants and composers of [“The World Is Not Enough”] did not have access to [“This Game We Play”] [through] any of the avenues postulated by Plaintiffs because a review of the record indicates that the melody and significant portions of [“The World Is Not Enough”] ․ were completed prior to the dates that any alleged access by Defendants to [“This Game We Play”] could have occurred.
D. Ct. Op. at 17 (Mar. 14, 2003).   The district court also rejected plaintiffs' alternative claim that the two songs are “strikingly similar,” an independent theory of liability that warrants relief even when the plaintiff cannot prove access.  Id. at 19-20.  “There is no evidence adduced by Plaintiffs,” the court concluded, “to support the proposition that the two works are so strikingly similar that copying is the only plausible explanation of the similarities.”  Id. at 20.
In the aftermath of this ruling, MGM moved for attorneys' fees under § 505 of the Copyright Act, 17 U.S.C. § 505, and for nontaxable costs under Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 54(d).  Alleging that plaintiffs' claims were “objectively unreasonable,” MGM sought $170,519 in attorneys' fees and $11,647.60 in non-taxable costs.   The district court granted MGM's motion for attorneys' fees “in the interests of justice and in furtherance of the objectives of the Copyright Act.” D. Ct. Op. at 8 (June 17, 2003).   “Plaintiffs ['] claims were objectively unreasonable,” the district court observed, “in that Plaintiffs pursued litigation despite multiple third-party declarations establishing independent creation of [“The World Is Not Enough”] before any of the Defendants had access to Plaintiffs' original work,” and “Plaintiffs offered no direct evidence to support one of the two basic elements of copyright infringement.”  Id. at 8-9.   The district court, however, “conclude[d] that a 30% reduction in the billed hours ․ is appropriate ․ in light of the overstaffing of this litigation, the redundant billing, and vague entries on the firm's invoices,” id. at 15, and awarded MGM $85,507.16 in attorneys' fees, id. at 19.   Holding that fees for “(1) legal research;  (2) federal express charges;  (3) messenger service;  (4) phone/telecopy;  (5) postage;  (6) out of town travel;  and (7) copies” were not allowable, the district court denied MGM's request for nontaxable costs of $11,647.60.  Id. at 20.   For routine taxable costs, the district court awarded $4,847.58.  Id. at 23.
III.
Summary judgment is appropriate when “the pleadings, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and admissions on file, together with the affidavits, if any, show that there is no genuine issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  Fed.R.Civ.P. 56(c).  “Where the record taken as a whole could not lead a rational trier of fact to find for the non-moving party,” the Supreme Court has held, “there is no genuine issue for trial.”  Matsushita Elec. Indus. Co. v. Zenith Radio Corp., 475 U.S. 574, 587, 106 S.Ct. 1348, 89 L.Ed.2d 538 (1986) (quotation omitted).   A district court's summary-judgment decision receives de novo review.   See Farhat v. Jopke, 370 F.3d 580, 587 (6th Cir.2004).
 The Copyright Act gives copyright owners exclusive rights to reproduce, prepare derivative works from, distribute, and publicly perform or display a copyrighted work.   See 17 U.S.C. § 106.   To the ends of protecting these rights, the Act allows “[t]he legal or beneficial owner of an exclusive right under a copyright ․ to institute an action for any infringement of that particular right.”  17 U.S.C. § 501(b).  A claim of copyright infringement requires proof of “(1) ownership of a valid copyright, and (2) copying of constituent elements of the work that are original.”  Feist Publ'ns, Inc. v. Rural Tel. Serv. Co., 499 U.S. 340, 361, 111 S.Ct. 1282, 113 L.Ed.2d 358 (1991);  see also Ellis v. Diffie, 177 F.3d 503, 506 (6th Cir.1999).
 Because claimants rarely have direct evidence of copying, they typically try to establish an inference of copying by showing “(1) access to the allegedly-infringed work by the defendant(s) and (2) a substantial similarity between the two works at issue.”  Ellis, 177 F.3d at 506.  “Access,” we have held, “is essentially hearing or having a reasonable opportunity to hear the plaintiff[s'] work and thus having the opportunity to copy” and “may not be inferred through mere speculation or conjecture.”   Id. (quotations omitted).   The “substantial similarity” analysis first requires a filtering of the unprotectable aspects of the protected work, then asks whether an “ordinary observer” would perceive the original and the alleged copy as substantially similar.   See Kohus v. Mariol, 328 F.3d 848, 855-57 (6th Cir.2003).   Once a plaintiff establishes access and substantial similarity, the defendant may rebut the presumption of copying by showing independent creation of the allegedly infringing work.  Ellis, 177 F.3d at 507;  see also Susan Wakeen Doll Co. v. Ashton Drake Galleries, 272 F.3d 441, 450 (7th Cir.2001).   Lastly, even without proof of access, a plaintiff still may prevail by showing a “striking similarity [between the works], precluding all possible conclusion but that the work was copied.”  Murray Hill Publ'ns, Inc. v. Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp., 361 F.3d 312, 325 (6th Cir.2004).
In applying these principles to this case, the parties share considerable common ground.   MGM does not dispute that Fogerty and Crow own a valid copyright in “This Game We Play,” and plaintiffs concede that they failed to produce direct evidence of copying.   For purposes of this appeal, the parties also agree that Fogerty and Crow proved that MGM had access to their work after February 4, 1999, and that the two songs are substantially, but not strikingly, similar.
 The question under these circumstances is whether David Arnold independently created “The World Is Not Enough” before February 4, 1999, and whether the undisputed evidence establishes that fact.   We believe it does.
Fogerty and Crow concede that David Arnold did not have access to “This Game We Play” until Crow delivered a recording of the song to Michael Sandoval at MGM on February 4, 1999.   Before that date, deposition testimony and personal calendar entries show that David Arnold and Don Black collaborated on “The World Is Not Enough” in November and December 1998.   Arnold performed the song twice for his personal assistant Trish Hillis between October and December of 1998. He also performed the song for Geoff Foster and Isabel Griffiths of Air Studios in December 1998, and the film producers Barbara Broccoli and Michael Wilson heard the song in early January 1999.   Arnold also made a demo recording of the song, and his personal computer at Air Studios indicates that he last modified the recording on January 6, 1999.   The next day, Arnold delivered a copy of the song to Pinewood Studios where the film's director, Michael Apted, listened to the song.
Arnold and Hillis also testified that Hillis delivered a copy of the recording to the Royal Garden Hotel in London where Shirley Manson was staying.   Hillis produced her phone log showing that she made several calls concerning the delivery on January 19, 1999, and her personal calendar indicated that she planned to go there on January 20 to deliver Arnold's song.   MGM also produced a hotel receipt indicating that Shirley Manson stayed at the Royal Garden Hotel on January 20.   Hillis testified in her deposition that she left the recording at the hotel desk for Harold Kohl, Garbage's tour manager, and Manson recalled receiving the recording from Kohl at the hotel.
Aside from a lyrical change to the song (the removal of one line to accommodate Shirley Manson) and one change to the score (the removal of the “three-note motif” to accommodate the MGM executives), the witnesses that testified or gave declarations agree that the song they heard before February 4, 1999 did not otherwise change after that date.   In the face of this evidence that Arnold and Black independently created “The World Is Not Enough” before MGM first had access to “This Game We Play” on February 4, 1999, plaintiffs raise a series of arguments designed to show that they nonetheless should be able to present their claim to a jury.   Each is unconvincing.
 First, they suggest that they can respond to this evidence simply by claiming that a jury might choose to disregard it or might find it unpersuasive.   That is not true.   See Cox v. Ky. Dep't of Transp. 53 F.3d 146, 150 (6th Cir.1995) (“[A] nonmoving party may not avoid a properly supported motion for summary judgment by simply arguing that it relies solely or in part upon credibility considerations․ [I]nstead, the nonmoving party must present affirmative evidence to defeat a properly supported motion for summary judgment.”);  Curl v. Int'l Bus. Machs. Corp., 517 F.2d 212, 214 (5th Cir.1975) (“[T]he party opposing summary judgment must be able to point to some facts which may or will entitle him to judgment, or refute the proof of the moving party in some material portion, and ․ the opposing party may not merely recite the incantation, ‘Credibility,’ and have a trial on the hope that a jury may disbelieve factually uncontested proof.”) (quotation omitted);  Eaton v. Nat'l Broad. Co., 972 F.Supp. 1019, 1024 (E.D.Va.1997) ( “[A] copyright plaintiff cannot base her opposition to summary judgment entirely on the hope that a fact finder will disbelieve the persons who have submitted affidavits on issues of access.”);   cf.  Matsushita, 475 U.S. at 586, 106 S.Ct. 1348 (“When the moving party has carried its burden under Rule 56(c), its opponent must do more than simply show that there is some metaphysical doubt as to the material facts.”) (footnote omitted).
Second, in the absence of affirmative evidence rebutting MGM's pre-access chain of events, plaintiffs claim that inconsistencies in MGM's evidence by themselves create a genuine issue of material fact. They note, for example, that MGM executives disliked “The World Is Not Enough” but liked “This Game We Play” in early February 1999.   The different reactions, plaintiffs urge, show that the two songs were not substantially similar on February 4, 1999, and show that Arnold must have copied “This Game We Play” after February 4, 1999 because the songs are substantially similar today.   Too many competing inferences, however, separate this premise from plaintiffs' proposed conclusion.   Fogerty and Crow neglect to mention that MGM executives listened to each song for different reasons-in Arnold's case to determine if the song would work for the new Bond film, in plaintiffs' case to see if their song would work for another film.   Because the MGM executives listened to each song in different musical, artistic and commercial contexts-with one solicited for the Bond movie and the other unsolicited and at most considered for another film-this theory of infringement is too speculative to warrant a jury trial on its own.
Fogerty and Crow next scrutinize Arnold's and Black's testimony.   Arnold's declaration indicates that he made “an initial demonstration recording” of the “The World Is Not Enough” on January 6, 1999.   Black's declaration, however, indicates that he made a recording with Arnold in November or December 1998.   Neither version of events, however, places creation of the demo recording after February 4, 1999.   A factfinder could believe Arnold;  it could believe Black;  or it could believe parts of each individual's testimony.   But it could not rationally come to the conclusion that the recording was made after February 4, 1999, especially in light of plaintiffs' inability to refute the delivery of a recording of the song to Manson at the Royal Garden Hotel on January 20, 1999.
Fogerty and Crow point to one other alleged discrepancy between Arnold's and Black's testimony that deserves mention.   Posturing as someone working with James Horner, the composer of the “Titanic” sound track, Crow contacted Don Black by phone and asked whether Black would be interested in writing the song lyrics for the film “Oceans 11.”   During the tape-recorded conversation, Crow asked Black questions about “The World Is Not Enough,” including when he received the song to write the lyrics.   Black, who later explained that he was trying to impress someone whom he believed to be a major composer, indicated that he received the song approximately two months before the movie's release date, which was December 1999.   As Crow admitted (after the phone call), “the entire thing [was] deceptive ․ [and] intentional[ ],” JA 310, because he was trying “to trick them into telling [him] the truth,” JA 311.
The Federal Rules of Civil Procedure do not provide for this form of discovery.   And it is not clear whether the Federal Rules of Evidence would permit the admission of such a phone call.   But even assuming the admissibility of this evidence and even assuming that Fogerty and Crow would unveil this antic to a jury, the statement at issue-that Black (the lyricist) purportedly received the music to the song just two months before its release-does not establish a cognizable cause of action.   In order to credit this statement, a jury would have to believe that Black wrote the lyrics to “The World Is Not Enough” in October 1999-two months after Garbage finished commercially recording the song.   No rational trier of fact could rely on this statement in finding for Fogerty and Crow.
Plaintiffs next point to several letters written by Trish Hillis to individuals seeking to collaborate with David Arnold while he composed the musical score for “The World Is Not Enough.”   The nub of these letters is that Arnold continued working on the musical score for the entire movie after the February 4, 1999 date of access. Absent from the letters, however, is any reference to the theme song, which is all that is at issue here.   The most potent letter, dated April 16, 1999, reads:  “[Arnold] has also been commissioned to write both [the theme and end] songs, which were finished a few weeks ago.”   JA 594.   At most, however, this statement shows that both songs (as opposed to only “The World Is Not Enough”) were not complete until after February 4, 1999, which does not create a fact dispute that the theme song had not been completed before that date.
Shirley Manson's testimony also contains several inconsistencies, none of which casts doubt on MGM's claim of independent creation.   Manson and Arnold failed to recall consistently the details of when Manson first heard the song and when she and Arnold first communicated after she heard the song.   In his declaration, Arnold claimed that he spoke with Manson on the phone January 20, 1999 (the day Hillis delivered the song to the Royal Garden Hotel) and that she loved the song.   In Arnold's deposition, he said that he received an e-mail from Manson on an unknown date.   Manson essentially could not recall when she first listened to the demo recording and had “no idea” if she listened to it prior to February 4, 1999.   JA 215.   But these inconsistencies do not alter the unrefuted evidence that Hillis left a copy of the song for Manson at the Royal Garden Hotel on January 20, 1999, and that it was this copy of the song that Manson eventually heard.   In this setting, the district court's decision to disregard the inconsistencies in Manson's other testimony does not amount to an improper weighing of the evidence.   See Street v. J.C. Bradford & Co., 886 F.2d 1472, 1480 (6th Cir.1989) (“The trial court has at least some discretion [at summary judgment] to determine whether [plaintiffs'] claim is ‘implausible.’ ”).
Crow also made a false-pretenses phone call to Shirley Manson, much like the one he made to Don Black.   During the call, Manson indicated that she first received the song in August of 1999.   While Manson's band did not finish commercially recording the song until that date, the parties do not dispute that the first recording session of the song occurred in June 1999.   In other words, to believe plaintiffs' interpretation of Manson's statement, a jury would have to conclude that Manson first heard “The World Is Not Enough” two months after she began recording the song.   No rational jury would accept that sequence of events.
Fogerty and Crow next take aim at the declarations of Wilson and Broccoli.   In their declarations, Wilson and Broccoli noted that “[a]side from some minor lyrical changes, the song David played us in his attic room that day was the same song we ultimately recorded for the film,” but failed to mention that Arnold later removed the “three-note motif” that the initial recording of the music shared with earlier Bond songs.   This oversight, according to plaintiffs, makes the declarations unreliable.   We are not persuaded.   The change was a minor one;  it had nothing to do with the four-note sequence that parallels “This Game We Play”;  and it does not alter the fact that Arnold played “The World Is Not Enough” for others (including Wilson and Broccoli in early January 1999) well before the date of access.
The dates of the contracts between Arnold, Black and MGM also have little value.   True, each written contract went into effect after February 4, 1999.   But the undisputed evidence shows that Wilson and Broccoli selected David Arnold to write the musical score for “The World Is Not Enough” in September 1998.   And in his own deposition, Crow acknowledges that on February 4, 1999, when he met with Sandoval of MGM, Sandoval told him that Arnold had a “lock on this,” JA 299, “that Mr. Arnold had been hired to write an original score for the film,” JA 298, and that “Mr. Sandoval made it v