Echelon.txt

Q: In what event is Echelon liable for damages?
A: IN NO EVENT WILL ECHELON BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES

Q: Which country's laws govern this contract?
A: This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of California.

Q: What happens if part of the contract is invalid?
A: If any provision of this Agreement is held invalid, the remainder of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.



Microsoft.txt

Q: Which country is this license relevant to?
A: THE UNITED STATES

Q: Does Microsoft collect user data?
A: By accepting this agreement and using the software you agree that Microsoft may collect, use, and disclose the information as described in the Microsoft Privacy Statement (aka.ms/privacy), and as may be described in the user interface associated with the software features.

Q: Who can use Microsoft Office for academic use?
A: For academic use, you must be a student, faculty or staff of an educational institution at the time of purchase.



Oracle.txt

Q: What country's laws are used by the Oracle agreement?
A: This Agreement is governed by and construed in accordance with the substantive and procedural laws of the United States and the State of California, except that body of California law concerning conflicts of law.

Q: What happens if someone tries to make a claim against my use of the software?
A: If a third party makes a claim against You that Your use of the Program as provided in this Agreement infringes its intellectual property rights, Oracle, at its sole cost and expense,
will defend You against the claim and indemnify You from the damages, liabilities, costs and expenses awarded by the court to the third party claiming infringement or the settlement agreed to by Oracle,
if You do the following:
- notify Oracle promptly in writing, not later than 30 days after You receive notice of the claim (or sooner if required by applicable law);
- give Oracle sole control of the defense and any settlement negotiations; and
- give Oracle the information, authority, and assistance it needs to defend against or settle the claim.
If Oracle believes or it is determined that the Program may have violated a third party’s intellectual property rights,
Oracle may choose to either modify the Program to be non-infringing (while substantially preserving its utility or functionality) or obtain a license to allow for continued use,
or if these alternatives are not commercially reasonable, Oracle may end the license for, and require return of, the Program and refund any fees You may have paid for it.
Oracle will not indemnify You if You alter the Program or use it outside the scope of use identified in the Program’s user documentation or if You use a version of the Program which has been superseded,
if the infringement claim could have been avoided by using an unaltered current version of the Program. Oracle will not indemnify You to the extent that an infringement claim is based upon any information,
design, specification, instruction, software, data, or material not furnished by Oracle. Oracle will not indemnify You to the extent that an infringement claim is based upon the combination of the Program with any products or services not provided by Oracle.
Oracle will not indemnify You for infringement caused by Your actions against any third party if the Program as delivered to You and used in accordance with the terms of this agreement would not otherwise infringe any third party intellectual property rights.
You and Oracle acknowledge that Apple will not be responsible for the investigation, defense, settlement or discharge of any third party claim that the Program or Your possession and use thereof infringes that third party’s intellectual property rights.

Q: How can I end my agreement with Oracle?
A: You may terminate this Agreement by destroying all copies of the Program.



PDF Technologies.txt

Q: Under what conditions can PDF Technologies terminate the agreement?
A: (a) Licensee terminates or suspends doing business. (b) Licensee breaches or fails to perform any other material term or provision of this Agreement and has not cured such breach or failure within thirty (30) days of receiving written notice from PDF Technologies, Inc. specifying the breach or failure.

Q: Can licencees resell the software?
A: Licensee herby agrees not to resell trade or otherwise make the Software available to any other person, persons or company except as stated in section II of this agreement.

Q: How can the agreement be modified?
A: by a written document signed by an officer each of PDF Technologies, Inc. and the Licensee.